Beside a highway, a mound 
of oxide-red dirt and rubble 
looms above a gray industrial 
building under construction 
that spans the length of several 
city blocks. Atop the building’s 
flat roof are dozens of heating and cooling 
units, spaced like biscuits on a sheet pan under a baking sun. The tree-lined site, which 
crawls with bulldozers and trucks, is visible 
from Interstate 75 as it cuts through the 
Appalachian foothills of northwest Georgia. 
Once completed, this 786,000-squarefoot building in Dalton will 
be at the heart of the largest 
solar-cell manufacturing facility in North America, capable of producing enough 
solar panels annually to power nearly 1.3 million homes. 
Hanwha QCells, a South 
Korean company, already 
builds solar panels inside 
an adjacent plant that began 
operating in 2019. Another 
production facility is under 
construction in Cartersville, 
30 miles south along I-75. 
All told, QCells is investing $2.5 billion in Georgia. It’s 
among a slew of companies 
that have made Georgia an 
emerging hub for clean-tech manufacturing, 
including electric vehicles and the batteries 
that power them. Meeting part of America’s 
growing demand for electricity with solar 
and other renewable energy is essential to 
reducing emissions of heat-trapping gases. 
The same highway, I-75, connects Georgia to Detroit, the traditional automaking 
hub. Along the way, though, truckers must 
cross the Ohio River on a bridge known for 
accidents that is a notorious bottleneck for 
freight worth $1 billion that passes through 
daily. Built in 1963, the Brent Spence Bridge 
carries around 160,000 vehicles a day between Cincinnati, Ohio, and 
Covington, Kentucky, twice 
the number it was designed 
to carry. 
Dave Baker joined the Iron 
Workers union in Cincinnati 
in 1997. “I was told we were 
going to build a bridge,” he 
says. Politicians promised action. Planners drew designs. 
Nothing happened. And the 
Brent Spence Bridge became 
a symbol of partisan gridlock 
in Washington and a daily reminder of America’s decaying 
public infrastructure. 
Last year, federal funding 
was secured for a $3.6 billion 
replacement of the bridge and parts of its adjoining highways. Work 
is due to start this year, and Mr. Baker’s 
ironworkers will finally be put to work on a 
new bridge. “To say that it’s overdue is kind 
of an understatement,” he says. 
What links both projects – apart from 
I-75 – is legislation signed into law by President Joe Biden that provides hundreds of 
billions of dollars in subsidies, loans, and 
grants for infrastructure, green-tech industries, and semiconductors. This gusher of 
public money is designed to unlock even 
larger flows of private capital so that the 
United States retains its competitive edge in 
manufacturing and its economy lifts more 
families into the middle class. 
President Biden has taken to branding 
his program “Bidenomics” and to contrasting it with what 
he calls the failure of 
“trickle-down” policy 
to spread wealth. In a 
speech in Chicago in 
June, he said public 
investment was essential to drive long-term 
growth, and he compared his infrastructure law to the Interstate Highway System 
built in the 1950s and 1960s. “Biden economics means the industries of the future 
are going to grow right here at home,” he 
said. 
While his branding may be premature, 
Mr. Biden’s agenda could prove transformative, both in nurturing new industries and, 
arguably as importantly, in breaking with 
decades of putting restraints on government 
and letting the market set the nation’s economic priorities. Under President Ronald 
Reagan, this orthodoxy – often called neoliberalism – prioritized free trade, limited 
government, and unfettered capital. It commanded fealty from Republicans and Democrats alike. To dissent was to be branded a 
big-government heretic who would imperil 
the money machine of capitalism. 
That makes the shift under Mr. Biden, 
a Democrat from the party’s center, all the 
more profound. 
While Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack 
Obama largely adhered to the post-Reagan 
economic playbook, Mr. Biden has embraced a far more interventionist approach, 
says Gary Gerstle, an American historian 
at the University of Cambridge. “I think he 
has a sense that America is at an inflection 
point” – a point, he adds, where the “neoliberal economics of Clinton and Obama are no 
longer suitable ... for an America that needs 
a different and more ambitious agenda.” 
Jennifer Harris, who served for two 
years as senior director for international 
economics and labor on Mr. Biden’s National Security Council, calls his agenda “a 
revolution in economic 
ideas” that upends the 
neoliberal approach. 
“We’re living now in 
an experiment around 
industrial policy [and] 
the power of fiscal policy to solve what needs 
solving,” she says. 
The White House can point to early 
indicators that its experiment is working. 
From May 2022 to May 2023, private investment in industrial plants rose to $200 
billion, triple the yearly average seen in the 
2010s. Manufacturing employment has risen 
to nearly 13 million jobs, its highest level 
since 2008. Barely a week goes by without 
the announcement of a new clean energy 
project. 
Harder to gauge is whether voters will 
credit Mr. Biden for this activity and repay 
him and his party at election time. Infrastructure projects typically take years to 
complete. Many of the new factories are 
being built in conservative states like Georgia where Republican leaders lambaste the 
president and obscure the role his policy 
plays in attracting investments. And voters 
are still reeling from high inflation and the 
higher interest rates applied to reduce it. 
Even if Biden-backed projects provide 
concrete benefits, that may not be persuasive in a distrustful, polarized democracy, 
says Ted Strickland, a former Democratic governor of Ohio. “For some people, a 
road or a factory ... may move them in how 
they’re going to vote. But I think, unfortunately, for most people it’s going to be based 
on, are you on our team or the other team?” 
Mr. Biden is already campaigning on 
his economic policies and his belief in their 
power to improve people’s lives. His chance 
of winning a second term, and of making 
his transformations stick, may depend 
on how many voters share his belief that 
Bidenomics can deliver. 
r r r
It was January 2018, and Carl Campbell had 
a problem. 
It took the form of a 184-acre industrial 
park along I-75 on the outskirts of Dalton, 
Georgia, a town that for decades had grown 
wealthy making carpets for homeowners 
who expected wall-to-wall carpeting. After the housing bubble popped in 2007-08, 
putting hundreds of carpet-mill employees 
out of work, the county government drew 
up a diversification plan. It was time to roll 
out a welcome mat in the “Carpet Capital 
of the World” for other types of factories. 
As executive director of the DaltonWhitfield County Joint Development Authority, Mr. Campbell had to find tenants for 
the industrial park, a former campground 
the county had purchased in 2010. Now, 
eight years on, there was nothing to show 
for its investment. Auto-industry suppliers and other manufacturers checked it out, and 
the site often made their shortlist. But they 
all chose to build factories elsewhere. Dalton 
was always the bridesmaid, never the bride, 
and Mr. Campbell and the county commissioners were feeling political pressure. 
But then, in January 2018, President 
Donald Trump – who in his inaugural address said “protection will lead to great prosperity and strength” – slapped tariffs of 30% 
on imports of solar cells, hitting producers 
in China and South Korea. Shortly after, Mr. 
Campbell heard that QCells was looking for 
sites in Georgia.
By February, he was sitting down with 
representatives from the company, who told 
him they wanted a plant to be operational in 
a year. “They were on a really fast timeline,” 
Mr. Campbell says. 
The first QCells factory opened on time in 
early 2019 and created 600 jobs, with entrylevel wages starting at $15 per hour. This 
was above what Dalton’s carpet and flooring 
mills were paying, says Mr. Campbell. 
Landing QCells didn’t quell the criticism, though. For one, the Korean firm 
received a 10-year tax abatement on its 
480,000-square-foot plant, so the county 
was still in the red. And why should a solar company receive subsidies when carpet 
manufacturers employed far more workers, 
many residents wondered. 
“I’m not sure how you create wealth by 
giving money away to a foreign company,” 
says David Pennington, the Republican 
mayor of Dalton who ran for governor in 
2014. 
This argument mirrors the wider debate 
about government intervention, from trade 
barriers to protect domestic producers to tax 
incentives for favored industries. To neoliberals, such policies distort the economy 
and put too much power in the hands of 
bureaucrats and politicians. 
“If you subsidize something, you get 
more of it. But I think you get too much of 
it, generally. And what you get is often not 
cost-effective,” says Donald Boudreaux, an 
economist at George Mason University in 
Fairfax, Virginia. 
Under President Biden, this debate has 
intensified. In 2021, he signed into law 
the $1.2 trillion Infrastructure Investment 
and Jobs Act, which includes financing for 
clean energy projects. This was followed in 
2022 by the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), 
which offers at least $370 billion in subsidies for solar, wind, nuclear, and other lowemissions technology. Next came the CHIPS